# Transformation protocols

Transformation protocols are intended to modify a data element to produce another valid protocol.  The general pattern is that a protocol is encapsulated within the transformation protocol and once the transformation handler has complete the output should be another valid protocol.  Two examples of this might be `'gzip'` and `'encrypt'`.

# Pattern

Transformation protocols should be able to specify their own parameter patterns.  The number of parameters implicitly specifies the begin index of the data element they are operating on, that is, the one immediately following the last parameter.  For example if the fictitious protocol `'decompress'` took one parameter `<algorithm>'`  The parameter is the 2nd data element in the `OP_RETURN` and the data to be transformed begins at the 3rd element.  For optional parameters positional integrity can be maintained by using the null data element for optional parameters you don't wish to specify. A parameter may be another transformation protocol id such that transformations may be nested (e.g. `'tar' 'gzip'`)

Taking `'gzip'` as an example there are two modes of operation possible.  

1/ If the transformation protocol and it's parameters are followed by only a single data element it is expected to apply a transformation producing an array of bytes that should then be parsed for a sequence of `PUSHDATA` data elements.  The output of the transformation protocol is this newly parsed sequence of data elements.

2/ If the transformation protocol and it's parameters are followed by more than one data element it is expected the data elements will be a sequence of pairs.  Each pair is a boolean flag `OP_0` (`0x00`) or `OP_1` (`0x01`), followed by a another data element.  The boolean flag indicate with to apply the transformation to that data element.  The ouput of the transformation should be sequence of optionally transformed data elements excluding the boolean flags.

In both case the resulting sequence should be treated as a protocol itself with the first data element expected to be a protocol identifier which indicates which handler to pass the data to.

##Example

### Transformation of a single data element

##### Gzip a single data element: 

`'gzip' <file_protocol_gz>`

Which should be returned from the gzip handler as:

`'file' <filename> <data>`

Which is then passed to the `file` protocol handler.

### Transformation of multiple data elements

##### Compressed FILE data but uncompressed FILEAME:

`'gzip' 0 'file' 0 <filename> 1 <data_gz>`

This should be passed to the gzip handler which should output:

`'file' <filename> <data>`

Which is then passed to the `file` protocol handler.

### Nested transformations

Using the fictitious transformation protocol `'tar'` which concatenates multiple `'file'` elements into a single output:

`'gzip' 'tar' <file_protocol_tar_gz_>`

First the `'gzip'` transformation handler will decompress the data element yielding:

`'tar' <file_protocol_tar>`

The `'tar'` handler then transforms the output of `'gzip'` into a list of embedded file protocol elements giving:

`'file' <filename1> <data1>` `'file' <filename2> <data2>`



